#### [Alan Kay: I and my group think we are very good at it, but we also realize we are terrible at it](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G8X-yvDWClc&t=85m00s)
What we need is better systems. Systems are really hard to understand. Every little incremental improvement we should get out there, in the hopes that we can start getting ahead of systemitis that we have right now. I think this an enormous problem. The people who are good at it are not very good at it. I and my group think we are very good at it, but we also realize we are terrible at it. It is just **HARD**. It is really hard designing things that are more complex than a certain threshold. Once you get into that range, you really want the system to stay up, even it was badly designed. There are all these things you need ... If you just going around keeping the plates on the sticks, you are never going to learn anything. You have to have something that will keep the plates going on the stick so you can just stand back while they are going, and say ... those sticks suck. But if you are running around, or "I need better plates", or "I need motor on the stick", or something ... but if all you do is running around, you are just the slave of the system, rather than the other way.

#### [Maybe there is just a big pitfall that this is just hard stuff, and not realizing that it is really hard is a huge mistake](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SjbtEnfm7_Q&t=52m20s)
... thinking that you are smarter than you actually are. Maybe everybody are super-duper smart, but the fact is that ... after you have written something, and suddenly forced to come back to it a year later ... even if you were that smart at the time, you are not now. Maybe there is just a big pitfall that this is just hard stuff, and not realizing that it is really hard is a huge mistake.

#### [Predictable outcome of a project is based on do you have one really talented chief architect or not](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SjbtEnfm7_Q&t=95m47s)
Frederick Brooks also made the point I think he's right that sort of the predictable outcome of a project is based on do you have one really talented chief architect or not. If the answer is more than one or less than one, that your project will fail. If the answer is exactly one, it will succeed. And he says, well what's one of the jobs of that person? One of the jobs of that person is to be like a wicked busybody. All code goes across that guy's desk. This is one of the things thatmakes well that makes me insufferable.

#### [Everybody who is a programmer spends most of his life fixing code that is already built](https://github.com/lyssphacker/talks/blob/master/flexible-systems-power-of-generic-operations/flexible-systems-power-of-generic-operations.md)
And the reason why I am worried about that is because I think they are worried about the wrong things, most of the time. What I want to make sure is, that it is not the case that I am going to spend the rest of my life ... everybody who is a programmer spends most of his life fixing code that is already built, that somebody else had built, which in fact should not be a problem. It should be easy to do that. The hard stuff should be coming up with the ideas and organizations that do not have this problem. Inspiration for that is Emacs. Emacs is a gorgeous program explicitly because of the fact that 10000 people had written parts of it, and it still works, it is reliable.
